a)	Windows 11 installation
1.	Ensure your PC meets the minimum system requirements for Windows 11
2.	Backup Your Data:Before upgrading, it’s important to back up your files to prevent any data loss.
3.	Download Windows 11:
Visit the official Windows 11 download page.
You can choose to create Windows 11 installation media or download an ISO file.
4.	Create Installation Media:
If you choose to create installation media, you’ll need a USB flash drive with at least 8GB of space.
5.	Use the Media Creation Tool provided by Microsoft to create bootable USB installation media.
6.	Insert the installation media into your PC and reboot.
7.	Boot from the USB drive by pressing the appropriate key during startup (often F2, F12, Del, or Esc).
8.	Follow the on-screen instructions to install Windows 11.
9.	After installation, go through the setup process, including configuring settings and signing in with a Microsoft account.
b)	vscode installation
1.	Head over to the official VS Code download page: [download visual studio code ON Visual Studio code.visualstudio.com]
2.	Click on the Windows download link to download the .exe installer.
3.	Once the download is complete, locate the downloaded file 
4.	Double-click on the VSCodeUserSetup-{version}.exe file to run the installer.
5.	A setup wizard will open. Accept the agreement and click Next.
6.	Choose the destination folder where you want VSCode to be installed and click Next.
7.	Select the start menu folder for the VSCode shortcuts and click Next.
8.	Review your choices and click Install to begin the installation.
9.	Once installed, click Finish to close the setup wizard and launch Visual Studio Code.

c)	Version control setup
1.	Installing Git:
Download Git from git-scm.com.
Run the installer and follow the prompts to install Git on your machine.
2.	Configuring Git:
Open your command prompt or terminal.
The set up your global username: git config --global user.name "Kimaiyoo"
Set your global email: git config --global user.email "naomijepkorir18@.com"
3.	Create a GitHub Account:
Go to GitHub and sign up for an account.
Follow the prompts to complete your profile setup.
4.	Initialize a Git Repository:
Navigate to your project directory in the command prompt or terminal.
Initialize a new Git repository with: git init
Add files to the repository with: git add . (the period adds all files)
Make your first commit with: git commit -m "Initial commit"
5.	Connect to GitHub Repository:
Create a new repository on GitHub.
Give your repository a name and an optional description.
Copy the URL provided by GitHub for your new repository.
Link your local repository to the GitHub repository with: git remote add origin [URL] (replace [URL] with the copied URL)
Push your commit to GitHub with: git push -u origin main

d)	Installation of programming languages
Dart with flutter
1.	Download Dart SDK:
Go to the Dart SDK archive page.
Click on the Dart SDK link to start the download. A zip file will be downloaded.
2.	Extract Zip File:
Extract the contents of the Dart SDK zip file to a location on your computer.
3.	Add Dart Path to PATH Environment Variable:
To run Dart from any command prompt, you need to add the path to Dart’s bin folder to your PATH environment variable.
On Windows, search for “Environment Variables” in your start menu and select “Edit the system environment variables.”
In the System Properties window, click on “Environment Variables.”
Under “System variables,” find and select “Path” and click “Edit.”
Click “New” and add the path to your Dart bin folder (e.g., C:\path\to\dart-sdk\bin).
Click “OK” to close all dialog boxes.
4.	Restart Command Prompt:
Close any open command prompts and reopen them so that they recognize the new PATH variable.
5.	Verify Installation:
Open a new command prompt and type dart --version to verify that Dart is installed correctly.
Flutter
1.	Download Flutter SDK:
Visit the Flutter installation page.
Click on the “Windows” tab and download the latest stable release of the Flutter SDK.
2.	Extract the Zip File:
Extract the contents of the Flutter zip file to a desired location on your file system (e.g., C:\flutter\flutter).
3.	Update Your Path:
Add the full path to Flutter’s bin directory to your PATH environment variable.
4.	Run Flutter Doctor:
Open git by clicking on the folder and select “git bash here”.
Run the following command to check for any dependencies you may need to install to complete the setup: flutter doctor
You can additionally run: flutter –version to ensure you’ve downloaded the right thing.

Python

1.	Download Python:
Visit the official Python downloads page.
Click on the “Download Python” button for the latest version, or select a specific version if required for your project.
2.	Run Installer:
Once the installer is downloaded, run it.
Make sure to check the box that says “Add Python 3.x to PATH” before you click “Install Now.”
3.	Verify Installation:
Open a command prompt and type python --version to verify that Python is installed correctly.
You should see the version of Python that you installed.
4.	Install pip :
Run python get-pip.py in your command prompt.
5.	Test pip Installation:
In your command prompt, type pip --version to ensure pip was installed correctly.

 
e)	Configure a Database (MySQL):

1.	Download MySQL Installer:
Visit the MySQL Downloads page.
Select “MySQL Installer for Windows.”
Choose the version that suits your needs: I selected the 8.0.37 Web installer option. 
2.	Run the Installer:
Once downloaded, run the MySQL Installer.
The installer will guide you through the setup process.
3.	Choose Components:
I selected server only and was guided to download necessary products.
4.	Configure MySQL Server:
The installer will prompt you to configure the MySQL Server. This includes setting up root password, configuring network options, and deciding on default schema.
5.	Complete Installation:
Follow through with the installation wizard until completion.
Once installed, you can launch MySQL Workbench or other tools included in your setup.
6.	Verify Installation:
Open a command prompt and type mysql -u root -p to access the MySQL shell.
Enter the root password when prompted.
